---
layout: post
title: Are The Docs Readable?
date: 2015-09-07
categories: code bigquery docs
---


Google [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/) is an incredible tool. Users can create databases that contain anything imaginable. Google handles  queries so fast that users can parse millions of records in seconds. Public source information is also available, such as GitHub and Wikipedia's activity data. There is one fatal flaw though, and that is the documentation.

As engineers we are all well trained in the art of reading the docs. But what happens when the docs are bad? We spend dozens of hours trying to interface with an API that is desperate to keep us locked out. We're forced to resort to reading blog posts and third party libraries.

A recent project I've been working on ran into this problem. For several hours I tried to authenticate my API requests to no avail. With no official NPM library, I started browsing a few third party options. I decided on the [bigquery-model](https://www.npmjs.com/package/bigquery-model) library, because it had the most straight forward instruction. Bigquery-model makes it easy to run queries, and provides the information needed to authenticate. It has limited functionality, but suited my needs well enough. What was most important to me was the fact that it had clear authentication steps.

After turning a [pem file](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Privacy-enhanced_Electronic_Mail) into a string for some reason I was finally making some progress. From here I could play around with API calls, and start moving some data around.

Google BigQuery is a useful tool, but still has a far way to go documentation-wise. If you want to get started, I recommend playing around with the GitHub data. Seeing so much information about that many projects is fascinating. Check out [Gitit](https://github.com/Gitit-TGA/Gitit) to see my BigQuery project. We're parsing activity data from millions of records to get accurate statistics about JavaScript frameworks.
