---
layout: post
title: Yeoman? More like No, man
date: 2015-08-07
categories: code
---



I've been there, and I know what you're thinking. You have your app idea and you know the stack you want to use. No one wants to spend time configuring their environment. There's killer features to write! You decide to use a stack generator to get you started. Now here's why that was a mistake.

No two MEAN stacks are exactly alike. That sounds silly but it's true. What worked for one project doesn't always work for another. When you use Yeoman, you aren't cutting straight to writing code. You're cutting straight to debugging someone else's code. 

I recently worked on a project with 2 other devs. Once we had our stack figured out we decided to use Yeoman as a shortcut. At first it seemed great, npm install, bower install, and a node server is up and running. We started to run into problems almost immediately. SASS and Bootstrap weren't working, and our Grunt file was a thousand lines long. The console was a dark pit of endless vague errors. The magic of Yeoman wore off almost as fast as it had kicked in. We spent a solid 4 hours just trying to make our index page work without errors. We've all worked in Angular and Node many times, but this  code was a separate monster.

After giving Yeoman the old college try, we ended up scrapping our repo. Once we started fresh, we had our MEAN stack up and running in a matter of minutes. We thought that we could cut a few corners to save time, and we were wrong. Generators work for some people, especially for small projects. Yet for any project of size they create more problems than they solve.

Try it out for your own, it might actually work for your project. Just know that learning the actual technologies will get you further than shortcuts will.
