---
layout: post
title: Beutify Your OSX Terminal
date: 2015-09-16
categories: code devlife style
---

Face it. As engineers, we are going to spend an insane amount of time in the terminal. Some of us chose this life, and barelly even use a UI for most things. If you are going to spend this much time using it, you should spend a little extra time to make it beautiful. And no Neo, I don't just mean setting the text color to green.

The first thing I recommend is to ditch the default terminal, and switch to iTerm. This terminal is a little more customizable than the stock one.

I configure my iTerm as follows:

1. Open iTerm > Preferences. Under the General tab uncheck *Confirm closing multiple sessions*. This way iTerm won't cry if you try to close everything at once. Just be careful with your cmd-Q finger now.
2. In the Window section, change the default window size to Columns: 120, Rows: 40. This makes the window size a little better when you first open iTerm.
3. Install the font [Hack](http://sourcefoundry.org/hack/) to your system.
4. In iTerm > Preferences > Profiles > Text change both fonts to Hack 12pt.
5. In iTerm > Preferences > Profiles > Colors go to Load Presets and select Pastel (Dark Background). A lot of people like solarized, but I prefer something with more contrast.
6. Open/create your bash profile `vim ~/.bash-profile` and paste in the following code:
```
for file in ~/.{path,bash_prompt,exports,aliases,functions,extra}; do
  [ -r "$file" ] && source "$file"
done
unset file
export PATH=/usr/local/sbin:$PATH
```
This will give you beautiful terminal colors like this: 

7. Since you will now be seeing your computer name every time you're on the terminal, you should give it a cool name. To got System Preferences > Sharing and change the name to something cool. I always use Star Trek Federation ships because I'm painfully uncool.

###You have now beautified your terminal!
Now the next time you plug into a monitor to pair program, your pair will be like "damn that's a cool terminal."
