---
layout: post
title: Why We Like Esoteric Programming Languages
date: 2015-09-14
categories: code
---

Esoteric programming languages are different from regular programming languages. The general idea behind creating a new language is to address some sort of problem or shortcoming in an existing language. Each new language either makes something easier, or is closer to english for clarity. Esoteric programming languages are the polar opposite. They wallow in unreadability and unintuitive language. This begs the question: Why do we like them so much?

Take for example my personal favorite esoteric language, [BrainFuck](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brainfuck). A simple 'hello world' program in BrainFuck looks like this: '++++++++++[>+++++++>++++++++++>+++>+<<<<-]>++.>+.+++++++..+++.>++.<<…'. Why would anyone use this? Given the thousands of more readable programming languages out there, why would anyone make the conscious choice to write anything with a bunch of plusses and dots? The reason is simple, constraints breed creativity. When people are given wide open fields in which they can do anything, they rarely surprise. However when someone is given strick guidelines (144 characters, 7 seconds of video) that is when human creativity truly shines.

The same goes for esoteric programming languages. Writing a simple todo list program isn't impressive when it's done in Javascript with React, but when you can write an entire usable application in BrainFuck, [Ook](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Esoteric_programming_language#Ook.21), [LOLCODE](http://lolcode.org/), or [FALSE](http://strlen.com/false-language), you are likely in the top 10% of users and have some serious authority when it comes to that language.

We are engineers because we like challenges, and we like puzzles. Esoteric programming languages are both. They are incredibly challenging, and due to their often limited toolset, manipulating data is always a logic puzzle.

If you've never tried writing in a language like this, I recommend you give it a shot next time you have some time to burn. Getting Ook to output what you want feels similar to how we felt when we wrote our very first Hello World program. It feels nostalgic to have so little understanding about how a language works.
