---
layout: post
title: "In Defense of Commenting Code"
date: 2015-09-12
categories: code comments
---
In defense of commenting code.

A few weeks ago I read [an article](http://apdevblog.com/comments-in-code/) about why you shouldn't comment your code. The writer makes good points about the importance of readable code, bit is mistaken. Their logic falls into something I see a lot, which is "good code doesn't need comments". When I hear that sentence I often hear pipe dreams about "self documenting code". This is great in theory, but writing perfect readable code is a pipedream.

Sure one can wright the occasional short script without the need of comments. But, as soon as one makes anything of size, this system breaks down. Readable code is great, but readable comments are better. We've all felt the pain of bad comments, but that doesn't mean comments themselves are bad. You can think of comments as kitchen knives. Sure, we've all been cut by them, and the ones we got right out of college were terrible. But a fine tuned chef's knife is still an indispensable tool. I would also argue that it's much simpler to change comments than to change your code to be readable after things break down.

Comments are important. Not just to others, but to yourself. It's much easier and faster to read the comments in code your wrote 2 years ago, than it is to read and understand the codebase. When you come back to old code, you don't have the same context that you did when you first wrote it. We forget things all the time, especially with code, things can start to blur.

In a way it's true that if we write perfect code, it *might* be readable without comments. That never happens in real life, especially in a professional environment with deadlines. Clean your room, eat your vegetables, comment your code.