---
layout: post
title: "What's with all the clicking?"
date: 2015-09-11
categories: not_code keyboards
---
You've seen this person. They're in StarBucks, your college classes, and possibly even at your work. They use a laptop, but they don't use the laptop keyboard. They have a seperate keyboard plugged in, but it's weird. It's loud.

What you have just spotted my friend, is a mechanical keyboard user. I know, because I've been one for many years now. Keyboards are generally considered a pretty weird thing to be enthusiastic about. After all, most people just use computers for social media. If you're a heavy computer user (programmer, gamer, heacy typist) there's a good chance that if you use a mechanical keyboard, you'll never be able to go back.

###WTF Is a Mechanical Keyboard?

A mechanical keyboard is simply a keyboard with actual physical switches triggering the keypresses. If you've ever taken they keys off your run of the mill keyboard, you will usually find some rubber bumps. When you push a key down, the rubber dome makes contact with the board, and this sends the keypress. This gives keys kind of a smushy feeling, and also gives the keyboard 2-3 years of heavy use to live, before the rubber gives out.

If you take the keys off a mechanical keyboard, you will see solid individual switches. These are sturdier and last way longer than rubber dome keyboards. If you buy a mechanical keyboard, chances are you'll only have to buy one for your whole life. But it's also very likely that you'll buy many more, because they're really cool.

There are many different switches that give different feelings and even different sounds. The most popular are Cherry MX Blues. These are blue switches, that give a tactile bump when pressed, and a very satisfying click. It's reminiscent of a typewriter. There are dozens other switch types that differ and sound and feel. The best way to find which switches work for you is to try them out.

Mechanical keyboards aren't for everybody, but if you spend a large portion of your time typing, they're at least worth a shot. Just be forwarned, buying keyboards is highly addictive.