---
layout: post
title: JavaScript Framework Trends
date: 2015-09-19
categories: code devlife javascript
---

There's a war going on in the JavaScript world. To anyone that's an engineer, this shouldn't be surprising, because there's always a war going on in tech. The war I'm talking about specifically is the JavaScript Framework War. Every developer has a favorite framework (It's often their first framework) that they evangelize. This is fine, except there are often claims thrown around like "biggest" or "up and coming" or "trending" but there actually isn't any information to support these claims.

The popularity of various frameworks comes down to conjecture and hearsay. This allows a lot of room for people to argue about which framework is the "best". This is ultimately useless as every person has their own unique definition on best. While I can't show you which framework is the best (jk it's [Mithril](https://lhorie.github.io/mithril/)) I can show you which is the biggest, and the growth patterns, thanks to the project I built with my team at TGA: [GoGITit](http://gogitit.co).

GoGITiT uses public github information to distinguish what frameworks are getting used. We take snapshots of activity every day, so we can see trends over time. While these trends will really only show growth, (because people rarely delete their repositories) the rate of growth and pure numbers are fascinating.

Here are a few discoveries we have found with the data we've collected so far (Approximately 2 weeks of data):

* React has about as much marketshare as Backbone, even though backbone has been around much larger
* There are more people using knockout than you would initially think
* Mithril is still tragically underused
* Angular is huge. Like, really huge. It's not only the largest that we have data on, but it's also growing at the fastest rate, with around 100 new repos active per day
* Not a single public repo has updated a Cappuccino app in the past 2 weeks
* There are still a few people out there using Flight.

This data is updated every day, and our graphs become more accurate as it's updated. Who knows what sort of trends we'll see in the months to come?
