---
layout: post
title: Heroku vs. AWS
date: 2015-09-21
categories: code devlife
---

Deployment is one of the most important things about a project. After all what's the point of building something is no one can use it? There are plenty of options, but the ones I have personally used are AWS, Heroku, and Azure. Azure was a terrible experience so it's not even in the running for this comparison. I've used AWS and Heroku the most extensively, and this post will list the differences, pros, and cons with each.

### Heroku is simpler
It's very easy to get started with Heroku. All of its options are clearly laid out and labeled well. The steps to deploy an app are very simple. It ultimately comes down to making Heroku a remote in your git repo, and pushing. This simplicity has its downsides though. You aren't really interfacing with a linux box like AWS. To use things such as Cron, you have to install plugins that are similar, but different to the tools that we've come to take for granted on real machines.

### AWS is more robust
AWS is an incredibly powerful tool. Creating an EC2 instance essentially gives you a linux box, with which you can do just about anything. Because of this, however, far fewer things are automatic. You have to have a pretty in depth understanding of server architecture to really get rolling with it. In addition to the higher skill barrier, there's less information about waht does what. Specifically, it's very hard to tell what's free and what isn't. Supposedly micro instances are free, but it's very easy to set something incorrectly and end up getting charged a few hundred bucks (As demonstrated by a team member last month)

Ultimately what deployment platform you're going to use is up to personal preference, and while I enjoy the flexibility AWS provides, for many projects that type of robustness isn't necessary. For most of my projects in the future, I'll be using Heroku, unless there is a specific reason why I would need the power and complexity that AWS provides.
