---
layout: post
title: Circular Linked Lists 
date: 2015-09-16
categories: code toyproblems hacky
---

Toy problems are coding challenges used to test prowess and logic. They are commonly used in interviews to determine if the interviewee is a solid candidate. During an interview it's best to use language agnostic pseudocode and diagrams that show that you have a firm understanding of the problem, and the algorithm you're writing to solve it. That is not what this post is about.

Sometimes there are very easy ways to solve complex problems. These solutions, while fun and oftem cool looking, are not what toy problems are about. They may show specific prowess to one specific language, but doesn't show any deeper understanding. That said, it's still fun to solve a problem in 3 lines.

The problem I solved recently was to [determine if a linked list is circular](http://www.programmerinterview.com/index.php/data-structures/how-to-find-if-a-linked-list-is-circular-or-has-a-cycle-or-it-ends/). The best way to solve this problem involves setting two variables that traverse the same linked list at different speeds. If they ever meet, the list is circular. If you show this understanding, you'll probably ace the interview, but there's a faster solution in JavaScript.

While I was exploring this problem, I tried to get an idea about what a circular linked list would look like. I did this by creating a list with a loop, and console logging it. This didn't work, as my terminal shortens objects that are too long. It fully prints out stringified objects though, so I decided to stringify the list before console logging it. This was the most crucial step.

Calling JSON.stringify on a list with a loop, results in an error. Essentially this function will enter an infinite loop if it tries to stringify a looped list, and it will escape with an error. The error actually specifically says that it can't stringify a 'circular data structure'. This is where I got my idea.

My function to determine if a list has a loop in it is as follows:

```
var hasLoop = function(list){
  try {JSON.stringify(list);} 
  catch(err){if(String(err).match(/circular/)) return true;
  return false;
}
```

Does this solution work? Hell yeah it does. Should you wright this on the whiteboard in an interview? Absolutely not. Writing this down doesn't show how you solve problems. Moreover, it would show that you already knew the answer to the problem, because you can't play with JSON.stringify on a whiteboard. It's fun to have knowledge about things like this, but it doesn't have any practical application outside of thought expiraments. If you bust this out during an interview, they probably won't be impressed, and will just give you another problem. Rementer, the point isn't to get an answer, the point is to show them your thought process and how you act when faced with a difficult problem.
