---
layout: post
title: My eBay Watcher
date: 2015-09-15
categories: code ebay retrogames
---

Most projects that are useful, are born out of necessity. There is often a need that is not being met, and this drives creation. Weird nerd stuff is no exception to this rule.

Several months ago, when I was a hobby coder and not an engineer, I came across one such need. People wanted refurbished PC-Engines, there is one seller on eBay that makes these very well and sells them relatively cheap. The problem is that eBay's seller watching service is terrible. If you follow a seller on eBay, once every month or so you will receive an email with a list of new items from some sellers you follow. If they listed 20 items that all sold fast, you get no indication of this from the email. There is no way to be automagically notified when a seller lists something. People were refreshing [this page](http://www.ebay.com/sch/doujindance/m.html?item=200934645457&rt=nc&_trksid=p2047675.l2562) many times a day, in hopes of catching a new listing. This is time consuming, boring, and a huge hassle. Enter Mechanize.

[Mechanize](https://github.com/sparklemotion/mechanize) is a web scraping rubygem. It allows you to get elements from a webpage in a headless browser easily. Today I would probably do this by using eBay's API, and normal http requests. I didn't have that knowledge back then. I opted to use Mechanize because Ruby was really all I knew. I wrote a script that gets the seller's store page. If there is a new item listed that isn't stored in my text file (yes, a text file. I didn't know how to use a database back then) It would use Twitter's API to [tweet out a link](https://twitter.com/DoujinStalker) to the new listing. This script was plugged into a cron job that runs every 20 minutes. I put this on my Raspberry Pi and it's been running ever since.

This was met to modest praise from the retro videogames forum I frequent, and has since been responsible for getting several people to drop a few hundred dollars on a dead but awesome console.

While the code is primitive, I'm proud of past me for isolating a problem, and coming up with a solution. Instead of dozens of fellow nerds constantly refreshing an eBay page, they can now just use [IFTTT](https://ifttt.com/) to get notified of when my bot tweets, and spend all the money they want.

When I have some free time I'd love to restructure this bot. I can make it much more elegant, and include a firebase or SQLite db. But it's autonomous and hasn't crashed in the several months it's been running, so it's more than good enough for now.
