---
layout: post
title: on ng-conf, and engineer infantalization
date: 2016-05-20
categories: code angular conference
---

## ng-conf was an interesting experience to say the least.

It took place in Salt Lake City, which was my first time staying in that Utah for anything longer than a drive-through. The hotel that was rented out was the Grand America, which is an uncomfortably fancy hotel. It really didn't seem to fit the mood of the conference at all.

What stood out to me the most about this conference, is that it felt like it was pandering do millenials to an incredibly awkward degree. In the 90s, at any sort of out of town fancy business conference at the Grand America, I can only assume the air was filled with cocktails and cocaine. At this one though, it was filled with child party attractions, scaled up to fit 20-somethings.

The second day of the conference was a 'fair day', which meant that there where a lot of concurent talks, but also a bunch of attractions throughout the day. On the second floor of this hotel, they set up a foam pit. That might not seem too bad at first mention, but the foam pit ammounted to a pile of foam blocks on the floor. It was nearly as embarassing as the infamous ball-pit situation of dashcon from a few years ago.

The velcro wall wasn't much better. It amounted to little more than a bounce house. Why were these attractions included and who were they for? The answer, is that the current environment of software development scene is filled with people who are actively being prevented from growing up. I don't mean this in a 'Millenials are entitled! Back in my day...' kind of way, but a much more subtle kind of way.

Software companies are incredibly well off on average. They make a lot of money, but they need engineers to do this. Money alone isn't always enough to keep employees, as more people begin to focus on work-life balance as they get older. This has lead to companies trying to look fun to bring in young/smart engineers, but a lot of it is really patronizing, at least to me.

I don't need a fucking ball pit at my conference about Angular. I don't need a ball pit, or a bounce house, or a bunch of candy everywhere. What I need at my Angular conference is to learn about Angular (which I did), everything else is just a bonus. I like fun as much as the next person, but the idea of some 60 year old man sitting in a board room thinking 'what do millenials like... foam pits?' it really pisses me off. I don't want your fucking foam pit, I want to learn shit. If you have the extra money for all this kid carnival shit, maybe just take that off the price of the ticket instead. Or maybe spring for some better food (although SLC was pretty dissappointing on a culinary level).

I had a good time at ng-conf because of the speakers, the people I met, the companies I got to talk to, and the time off work. All the erroneous stuff in an attempt to look quirky and cool was as embarassing as when a white dad tries to say 'I am lit fam'. 

I hope they learn to distill the positive things for the next ng-conf, because if I see bounce house on the schedule again, I may just stay home.
