---
layout: post
title: numnet
date: 2016-02-09
categories: code github personal
---

[Numnet](http://github.com/Ryan-McBride/numnet) is a passion project of mine, that allows users to create their own Numners Station broadcasts. It doesn't actually broadcast anything, but it does create audio files that can be sent around, if that's something you're into.

A numbers station is a means of coded communication. It uses an encryption methodology called a [One Time Pad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/One-time_pad). When used properly, an encrypted message is completely uncrackable without both halves of the pad. The basic technique is that the message receiver has a string of characters, at a later point they receive numbers that instruct them how to decode the message. 

In example, a pad of 'FHBL', is nonsense. But when paired with the numbers '19, 7, 10, 13', it decodes to 'YOLO'. This is uncrackable without both ends, because the pad and numbers can decode into literally any combination of characters. 'FHBL' can also be decoded to 'SWAG' when paired with the numbers '13, 15, 25, 21'. The true message isn't revealed unless the exact characters are paired with the exact numbers.

This type of message encryption can't effectively be brute forced (unlike password cracking) because the person cracking doesn't know what the actual intended message is, there is no way to know if the encrypted message was really YOLO or SWAG, or TRIP, or any other 4 letter word.

This encryption is cool, but what actually makes numbers stations attractive, is their [creepiness](https://youtu.be/BSxOjXC20Xo?t=19). Voices repeating numbers over a short wave transmission, strange tones and songs, etc. In addition to encrypting a message, numnet generates a transmission. This was achieved with Python, OSX Say, and the very powerful ffmpeg. IT was a fun project to work on, especially because I had never used ffmpeg before.

Some day I may extend this to include a service to actually send the numbers stations to your friends, but for now, exchanging a pad in person, and emailing/texting/facebook posting/tweeting the numbers transmission is perfectly secure, as long as the pad remains secret.

In keeping with the style of numbers stations, the most effective way would probably be posting the numbers publicly, so that there is no way to tell exactly who it was meant for.

[KEDUXMS](http://vocaroo.com/i/s1a9oPD0UUGd)
